p8105_hw1_smy2122
================
Sarah Younes
2023-09-18

## R Markdown

I ran usethis::create_github_token() in the console to get the token to
push to GitHub.

## Problem 1

I installed the moderndive package in the console and will now load both
the tidyverse and moderndive packages.

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching core tidyverse packages ──────────────────────── tidyverse 2.0.0 ──
    ## ✔ dplyr     1.1.3     ✔ readr     2.1.4
    ## ✔ forcats   1.0.0     ✔ stringr   1.5.0
    ## ✔ ggplot2   3.4.3     ✔ tibble    3.2.1
    ## ✔ lubridate 1.9.2     ✔ tidyr     1.3.0
    ## ✔ purrr     1.0.2     
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()
    ## ℹ Use the conflicted package (<http://conflicted.r-lib.org/>) to force all conflicts to become errors

``` r
library(moderndive)
```

I am now loading the early January hourly weather dataset, which shows
hourly meteorological data throughout early January 2013 for the 3
airports closest to New York City: LGA, JFK, and EWR. The dataset
contains 15 columns and 358 rows. The columns are the variables, which
include the weather station (“origin”), year, month, day, and hour of
recording, temperature (“temp”, measured in degrees Fahrenheit), dew
point (“dew”, measured in degrees Fahrenheit), relative humidity
(“humid”), wind direction (“wind_dir”, measured in degrees), wind speed
(“wind_speed”, measured in miles per hour), wind gust (“wind_gust”,
measured in miles per hour), precipitation (“precip”, measured in
inches), sea level pressure (“pressure”, measured in millibars),
visibility (“visib”, measured in miles), and date and hour of recording
(“time_hour”, stored as a single value in seconds as per the POSIXct
format). The mean for the temperature is 39.58 degrees Fahrenheit.

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
nrow(early_january_weather)
```

    ## [1] 358

``` r
ncol(early_january_weather)
```

    ## [1] 15

``` r
mean(early_january_weather$temp)
```

    ## [1] 39.58212

I will now create my scatter plot of temperature by time/hour, with
darker points indicating lower humidity and bluer points indicating
higher humidity. On average, temperature increases and humidity
decreases from January 1 to around January 16. However, this trend is
not fully linear and contains frequent drops in temperature immediately
followed by rises in temperature.

``` r
ggplot(data = early_january_weather, aes (x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) + geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_smy2122_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave
```

    ## function (filename, plot = last_plot(), device = NULL, path = NULL, 
    ##     scale = 1, width = NA, height = NA, units = c("in", "cm", 
    ##         "mm", "px"), dpi = 300, limitsize = TRUE, bg = NULL, 
    ##     ...) 
    ## {
    ##     if (length(filename) != 1) {
    ##         if (length(filename) == 0) {
    ##             cli::cli_abort("{.arg filename} cannot be empty.")
    ##         }
    ##         len <- length(filename)
    ##         filename <- filename[1]
    ##         cli::cli_warn(c("{.arg filename} must have length 1, not length {len}.", 
    ##             `!` = "Only the first, {.file {filename}}, will be used."))
    ##     }
    ##     dpi <- parse_dpi(dpi)
    ##     dev <- plot_dev(device, filename, dpi = dpi)
    ##     dim <- plot_dim(c(width, height), scale = scale, units = units, 
    ##         limitsize = limitsize, dpi = dpi)
    ##     if (!is.null(path)) {
    ##         filename <- file.path(path, filename)
    ##     }
    ##     if (is_null(bg)) {
    ##         bg <- calc_element("plot.background", plot_theme(plot))$fill %||% 
    ##             "transparent"
    ##     }
    ##     old_dev <- grDevices::dev.cur()
    ##     dev(filename = filename, width = dim[1], height = dim[2], 
    ##         bg = bg, ...)
    ##     on.exit(utils::capture.output({
    ##         grDevices::dev.off()
    ##         if (old_dev > 1) grDevices::dev.set(old_dev)
    ##     }))
    ##     grid.draw(plot)
    ##     invisible(filename)
    ## }
    ## <bytecode: 0x11b485310>
    ## <environment: namespace:ggplot2>

# Problem 2

The code chunk below creates a data frame comprised of a random sample
of size 10, a logical vector, a character vector, and a factor vector.

``` r
sample_df = tibble(
  random_samp = rnorm(10),
  logical_vec = random_samp > 0,
  character_vec = character(10),
  factor_vec = factor(10, 3)
)
```

As seen below, the mean could only be calculated for the random sample
(mean = -0.204) and logical vector (mean = 0.5) variables in the data
frame. However, the character vector and factor vector variables are not
numeric or logical and thus return NA.

``` r
mean(sample_df$random_samp)
```

    ## [1] -0.1374404

``` r
mean(sample_df$logical_vec)
```

    ## [1] 0.3

``` r
mean(sample_df$character_vec)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(sample_df$character_vec): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(sample_df$factor_vec)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(sample_df$factor_vec): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

The code chunk below converts logical, character, and factor variables
from the data frame into numeric vectors. Similar to taking the mean,
the logical vector returns numbers of 0 or 1 whereas the character and
factor vectors return NA, which may explain the results for calculating
the mean of each variable.

    ##  [1] 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
